.TH QUILC 1 "24 September 2018" "0.13.0 (cl-quil: 0.19.0) [e9b41e3]" 
.SH NAME
quilc \- an optimizing, architecture independent Quil compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS

quilc <options>

.SH DESCRIPTION
todo
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-S, --server"
(Server Mode) Run the compiler in Server Mode. This starts an HTTP server.
.IP "-?, -h, --help"
Show the help message.
.IP "-v, --version"
Show the version.
.IP "--verbose"
Print what the compiler is thinking. (Warning: It thinks a lot.)
.IP "--isa <string>"
Compile for the qubit architecture defined by <string>, which can be
either 8Q, 20Q, 16QMUX, or a path to a QPU description file.
.IP "-p, --protoquil"
Prescribe that the input and output must be ProtoQuil, which is Quil
that is comprised of gates and measurements, with no control flow.
.IP "--port <port>"
(Server Mode) Run quilc in server mode on port <port>.
.IP "-d, --compute-gate-depth"
Print a calculated gate depth for the provided circuit as an appended
Quil comment. (Requires -p.)
.IP "-2, --compute-2Q-gate-depth"
Print a calculated multiqubit gate depth for the provided circuit as
an appended Quil comment. (Requires -p. Ignores the blacklist and
whitelist.)
.IP "--compute-gate-volume"
Print a calculated gate volume for the provided circuit as an appended
Quil comment. (Requires -p.)
.IP "-r, --compute-runtime"
Print a calculated estimated runtime for the provided circuit as an
appended Quil comment. (Requires -p.)
.IP "-f, --compute-fidelity"
Print a calculated estimated compiled circuit fidelity for the
provided circuit as an appended Quil comment. (Requires -p.)
.IP "-u, --compute-unused-qubits"
Print a list of unused qubits as an appended Quil comment. (Requires
-p.)
.IP "-t, --show-topological-overhead"
Print the number of SWAP gates incurred for topological reasons for
the provided circuit as an appended Quil comment. (Requires -p.)
.IP "--gate-blacklist <gate-list>"
When calculating statistics, ignore the gates present in the
comma-separated list of names of <gate-list>.
.IP "--gate-whitelist <gate-list>"
When calculating statistics, consider only the gates present in the
comma-separated list of names of <gate-list>.
.IP "--time-limit <limit-ms>"
(Server Mode) Limit the amount of time for a single request to
approximately <limit-ms> milliseconds. By default, this value is 0,
which indicates an unlimited amount of time is allowed.
.IP "--without-pretty-printing"
Disable pretty printing of numerical quantities (e.g., multiples of
pi) in compiled output.
.IP "--prefer-gate-ladders"
Use gate ladders, instead of the SWAP gate, to implement long-ranged
gates, when possible.
.IP "-j, --json-serialize"
Serialize the output of compilation as a JSON object.
.IP "-s, --print-logical-schedule"
Include the logically parallelized schedule in JSON output. (Requires
-p.)
.IP "-m, --compute-matrix-reps"
Print the matrix representation of a compiled ProtoQuil
program. Additionally, verify that this matrix matches the matrix
representation of the input program. (Requires -p. Note that this is a
very expensive operation.)
.IP "--enable-state-prep-reductions"
Perform program optimizations by assuming that the quantum state
starts in the zero state.

.SH EXAMPLES
quilc --isa "8Q" < file.quil
.RS
Compile a Quil file (printing the result to stdout) for an eight qubit ring.
.RE

.SH SUPPORT
Contact <support@rigetti.com> or Robert Smith <robert@rigetti.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2018 Rigetti Computing
.SH SEE ALSO
qvm(1)
